>> Scott Moss: We were
talking about styling and
why you should just use Tailwind.
And let me get to the notes.
So, yeah, just use Tailwind.
So now what we wanna do is,
let's just go in and
actually fill out these marketing pages.
We have quite a few.
So we have the landing page, which you
already made, but it does nothing.
And we have the layout for
the marketing page, which you made and
also does nothing.
But as you can see for the layout in this
case, it's a great place to do navigation.
So we'll have a header in here where
you have links to the other pages.
I didn't ask for
you to make those other routes.
And you still don't have to make them now.
But if you want to, here's all the code
for those other routes as well.
This is just to show you how to use
the link component to link to other pages.
There's nothing special in any of this
code outside of just regular React and
just styling.
So feel free just to copy and paste
these in, that's what I'm going to do.
And then we'll demonstrate what
it means to have a static page.
How you can tell you have a static
page with Next.js, because what we're
gonna get into after this is gonna
be dynamic and it's way different.
So I want you to have a good
foundation of static pages.
And what does that mean when
it comes to performance,
caching, building, stuff like that.
So let's get to it.
So I'm going to take my index page,
put that in here for marketing page.
Just get that out of here, go.
One cool thing, though,
that is worth a mention is this
components, this Timestamp one.
So who here has never seen 'use client'?
Interesting, everybody has seen that so
far.
Okay, this has nothing to do with Next.js.
This is all React.
This is a React feature, okay?
If you don't know what this is, it's the
React that you've used your whole life,
that's what this is.
This is just regular old single
page application client side React.
You now have to explicitly
say that with React now.
So this is called a directive.
This is the use client directive.
This one, this function is interesting
because of just how static pages work.
This Timestamp is used in the footer of
the page to show the incorporated year.
So you have to go change that every year.
You gotta keep that up to date if
you want investors to think you're
still in business.
So [LAUGH] if you don't wanna change
that every year, you're smart.
You do it with a Timestamp, with a date.
The problem is the page that you put it
on is a static page and it gets cached.
This is a dynamic value that
gets executed every time.
So you end up getting an error,
at least in the mode that we're in.
So you have to run this on the client and
put it there.
So you'll see in a minute how
all this works, but, yeah,
pretty interesting thing here.
Cool, so I have my page.
Let me make sure that isn't busted.
That's right, I still have my conflict.
Let me get rid of my
conflicted page right quick.
There we go, okay, cool.
So now we look like this.
Obviously, I still have my
layout stuff that's rendering.
You may or may not have that, but
that's why mine is doing that.
You might notice this thing down here.
What is this?
This Next.js logo, that is not
from our code, I did not add that.
You did not add that.
But when you click on it,
it gives you some information.
One thing it says is route static.
When you click on this, it tells you that,
hey, this path that you're on,
which in this case is just index,
is marked as static since it will
be pre-rendered during build time.
With static rendering,
routes are rendered at build time or
in the background after data revalidation.
Static rendering is useful when
a route has data that is not
personalized to the user and
can be known at build time,
such as a static blog post or
a product page.
So essentially, anything that doesn't
change is gonna be a static site.
This is why I had to put the date
in a client component because
when you compute the date is
different every single time.
So I was not able to put that
directly in the page without it
complaining about that.
So this is a static page.
By default, most pages are static
unless you do certain things.
We'll talk about those certain things.
You've already done one of them,
that's making a dynamic parameter.
And if you use that
parameter inside of a page,
that automatically makes it
a dynamic page, not a static page.
So there's other things you can do,
like accessing cookies, explicitly saying
this is dynamic, using suspense, things
that we'll be using, stuff like that.
But this is static page.
This thing gets rendered by Next.js.
You can turn it off in the Next.js config.
Just leave it here, it works.
And then, hey, go try Turbopack.
They really want you to try Turbopack,
so [LAUGH] go do it.
To be fair, it is pretty good.
It is much faster, but the compatibility
issues just aren't there yet.
But the team that's working
on it is a very smart team.
Cool, we got that static page.
I'm gonna go get my other pages,
I'm gonna put them in.
So let's grab our layouts for
our marketing.
So I'll go to do that.
Go get rid of that,
put this in here, cool.
So now if I go back,
I now have this navigation at the top
that tries to link to other pages that
don't exist with a sign in and
sign up button.
All right, keep it moving.
Let's go ahead and add,
let's add a pricing page so
we can see how the link works.
So pricing is gonna be
marketing/pricing page.
So let's do this, new folder,
pricing, new route.
It's gonna be page.tsx.
Paste that in.
There we go.
Now if I go back, I
should be able to click on pricing,
and it'll go to pricing.
So one thing I want you to take note of,
I'm gonna stop my server.
Well, actually, no,
it shows it right here already.
So notice it'll say things like this,
Compiled, Compiled.
This happens because this
is a static page and,
well, let's just talk about static or
not static.
The pages themselves don't
actually get rendered or
executed by Next.js until
you visit them in dev mode.
So until I actually visited the price
page, it didn't get compiled.
And that first compilation
step takes a long time.
So you can see this took 336 milliseconds,
kind of a long time, and
then it rendered it.
But it only compiled once
when you stop your server and
go the first time, or
if you change something in the file and
did a hot module reload and
it had to recompile it.
So this could stack.
If you have dependencies in those
components that are fetching data and
that data takes forever to be fetched,
you might see the compilation step take
a long time, or if there's a lot going on.
So it can stack.
So sometimes in development you might have
big pages, and things just take forever to
compile, and then when you execute them,
they can take even longer with the data.
So just know that if you navigate to a
page for the first time since you start up
your server and it took a long time,
it's compiling.
Give it a second,
it won't do it the second time.
And this is where Turbopack
actually makes it way faster,
especially on this step right here.
And just to demonstrate that,
I'm gonna stop my server.
I'm gonna start it up.
It's probably gonna compile whatever page
I'm on now, which is, what, the pricing.
So I'm gonna refresh that.
You see,
it just starts compiling the pricing.
It compiled the favicon.
It never compiled the homepage.
I never went there, so it never did it.
As soon as I go home,
it's going to compile that one.
And there it is,
it compiled that one, and boom.
>> Speaker 2: In copying over some of
the stuff in terms of the pricing page,
let's say for instance,
you're just somebody who prefers to have
one component per file, for instance.
Next isn't gonna care unless it's
called page or layout, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
They don't
>> Speaker 2: just store your components
in that same directory.
>> Scott Moss: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Absolutely, unless you use
one of those special names like page,
layout, template, loading,
error, 404, not found.
There's a few more.
Yeah, as long as it's not that,
it's not gonna care, yeah.
But yeah, I'm with you.
Look, don't judge me, this is not how I'm
doing stuff in production, all right?
We ain't just throwing stuff in
here all willy nilly like this.
So we're gonna have components scoped out.
But I don't want you guys copy and pasting
all these files and doing all this stuff.
That's just so much work.
So we're just gonna put it in one place,
but yeah, great point.
So if we go to the layout,
we can look at the link component.
Here it is, it's pretty simple.
It has to have an href, and
it works just like an anchor tag stuff.
It does client side routing and
prefetching.
That's pretty much it.
You can turn off prefetching,
you could do things like prefetch, false,
say, don't do that.
There's so many things you can do there.
But, yeah, prefetching is good by default,
things like that, pretty simple.
It's pretty self-explanatory,
it does what you think it does.
Cool, I'm not going to add all those other
marketing pages because they're just more
of the same.
They don't actually do anything special.
So let's get to the Auth pages.
Where are they at?
There we go.
So for the sign up page,
I'm gonna copy that,
go to my sign up, and put that in there.
Does it sign up?
Yeah, cool, so we have our sign up page.
And then for my sign in page,
do the same thing.
>> Scott Moss: Great, and
should be able to check those out.
Go on to sign up, should look like this.
You shouldn't have a form, cuz that's
the next thing we're gonna make.
But you should see that if you go to
sign in, pretty much the same thing.
Cool, so that's essentially static pages.
Static pages are regular pages that don't
fetch data, or at least any dynamic data.
They are not personalized to
the user that's looking at it.
So it's not like, depending on
the user and their ID and their token,
I wanna show this thing.
That's a dynamic page.
A static page is something that's
gonna be the same for everybody.
And these pages are heavily optimized.
>> Speaker 3: Can I just see
your sign in page real quick?
>> Scott Moss: Sure.
>> Speaker 3: The actual page.
>> Scott Moss: The actual page,
how it looks?
Yes, this is my sign in page.
Yeah, yeah,
you should not see a form here.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, I would wanna make
sure you didn't have the layout either,
like the navbar.
>> Scott Moss: Got you,
yeah, that's a good point.
Yeah, I don't have the navbar because
the navbar layout is the marketing layout.
So the Auth won't have it.
The only layout that the Auth has
is the root one cuz that's its
closest ancestor layout,
which is down here somewhere here.
So yeah, it won't have that.
Now there are some other
things here with static pages.
It's gonna come down to pre-rendering
static pages that have dynamic values.
This is a good example for
blog post pages or documentation pages.
So you have some external source.
Let's say it's a headless,
yeah, a CMS or a database.
And you have 50 blog
posts you need to render.
These are all static pages.
Are you gonna come in here and
make 50 different blog posts?
Probably not, so you'll probably do
the catch all routes cuz you're smart.
But then, how do you pre-render
each one if you only have one
route made in your code
that represents each one?
So Next.js has something called, cool.
So get static params.
Basically, if you have a dynamic
page like this, again,
like a blog post, and
I need to go fetch all those blog posts.
And I want to pre-render a static page for
each one of those blog posts inside of
that file that represents one blog post,
I would export a function
called get StaticParams.
I would go get all of my blog posts
from whatever source they are in.
And in this case,
I need to return an array of objects
that match the dynamic parts of the URL.
So in this case, there's a slug here.
So I need to return an array that
has objects that have slugs.
And then for
each slug that you return here,
a route will be pre-rendered and
generated for you.
So that's essentially what this is.
You can put all your blog posts in here.
Let's say you have a hundred thousand
blog posts, you could do that.
Your build time's gonna be insane.
So what you can do instead is you can,
I don't know,
maybe get the first 50 recent ones.
And then if anybody tries to
navigate to an older one,
you do server-side generation on that.
That's called incremental regeneration.
So you would generate it.
When someone goes to visit a page,
let's say a blog post with a slug
that you did not pre-render here,
Next.js will render it on the server
like it's a server component.
And then now because it's static,
it never has to render again.
So if somebody tries to check
it two seconds after that,
they'll immediately get it without
having to render like the first time,
as if you were to put it in this array.
So it basically gets rendered
on demand versus you doing it
ahead of time to save
time on your build time.
That was really complicated explaining,
[LAUGH] but yes, that's how that works.
>> Speaker 4: Is building thousands
of pages on, let's say, Vercel,
really expensive, or not that expensive?
>> Scott Moss: It's slow,
it doesn't really cost.
I mean,
I guess it depends on where you run it.
Vercel does build, and
they're not gonna charge you extra for
build time, but it can be slow.
I've worked with companies that had
hundreds of thousands of articles, and
it could take them 30,
40 minutes plus to deploy something.
I guess that's fine compared to what
things normally are in bigger companies,
but it's still pretty slow.
And you're compiling things
that nobody looks at.
You're compiling a blog
post from ten years ago.
Who the hell's looking at that?
Nobody, so yeah,
only compile the things that you need.